README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: PostgreSQL

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs and configures PostgreSQL server on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers.

## Requirements

No special requirements; note that this role requires root access, so either run it in a playbook with a global `become: yes`, or invoke the role in your playbook like:

```yaml
- hosts: database
  roles:
    - role: geerlingguy.postgresql
      become: yes
```
## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

```yaml
postgresql_enablerepo: ""
```
(RHEL/CentOS only) You can set a repo to use for the PostgreSQL installation by passing it in here.

```yaml
postgresql_restarted_state: "restarted"
```

Set the state of the service when configuration changes are made. Recommended values are `restarted` or `reloaded`.

```yaml
postgresql_python_library: python-psycopg2
```

Library used by Ansible to communicate with PostgreSQL. If you are using Python 3 (e.g. set via `ansible_python_interpreter`), you should change this to `python3-psycopg2`.

```yaml
postgresql_user: postgres
postgresql_group: postgres
```

The user and group under which PostgreSQL will run.

```yaml
postgresql_unix_socket_directories:
  - /var/run/postgresql
```

The directories (usually one, but can be multiple) where PostgreSQL's socket will be created.

```yaml
postgresql_service_state: started
postgresql_service_enabled: true
```

Control the state of the postgresql service and whether it should start at boot time.

```yaml
postgresql_global_config_options:
  - option: unix_socket_directories
    value: '{{ postgresql_unix_socket_directories | join(",") }}'
  - option: log_directory
    value: 'log'
```
Global configuration options that will be set in `postgresql.conf`.
For PostgreSQL versions older than 9.3 you need to at least override this variable and set the `option` to `unix_socket_directory`.
If you override the value of `option: log_directory` with another path, relative or absolute, then this role will create it for you.

```yaml
postgresql_hba_entries:
  - { type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer }
  - { type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer }
  - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '127.0.0.1/32', auth_method: md5 }
  - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '::1/128', auth_method: md5 }
```

Configure [host based authentication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) entries to be set in the `pg_hba.conf`. Options for entries include:

  - `type` (required)
  - `database` (required)
  - `user` (required)
  - `address` (one of this or the following two are required)
  - `ip_address`
  - `ip_mask`
  - `auth_method` (required)
  - `auth_options` (optional)

If overriding, make sure you copy all of the existing entries from `defaults/main.yml` if you need to preserve existing entries.

```yaml
postgresql_locales:
  - 'en_US.UTF-8'
```

(Debian/Ubuntu only) Used to generate the locales used by PostgreSQL databases.

```yaml
postgresql_databases:
  - name: exampledb # required; the rest are optional
    lc_collate: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
    lc_ctype: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
    encoding: # defaults to 'UTF-8'
    template: # defaults to 'template0'
    login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
    login_password: # defaults to not set
    login_user: # defaults to 'postgresql_user'
    login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
    port: # defaults to not set
    owner: # defaults to postgresql_user
    state: # defaults to 'present'
```

A list of databases to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

```yaml
postgresql_users:
  - name: jdoe #required; the rest are optional
    password: # defaults to not set
    encrypted: # defaults to not set
    priv: # defaults to not set
    role_attr_flags: # defaults to not set
    db: # defaults to not set
    login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
    login_password: # defaults to not set
    login_user: # defaults to '{{ postgresql_user }}'
    login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
    port: # defaults to not set
    state: # defaults to 'present'
```

A list of users to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

```yaml
postgres_users_no_log: true
```

Whether to output user data (which may contain sensitive information, like passwords) when managing users.

```yaml
postgresql_version: [OS-specific]
postgresql_data_dir: [OS-specific]
postgresql_bin_path: [OS-specific]
postgresql_config_path: [OS-specific]
postgresql_daemon: [OS-specific]
postgresql_packages: [OS-specific]
```

OS-specific variables that are set by include files in this role's `vars` directory. These shouldn't be overridden unless you're using a version of PostgreSQL that wasn't installed using system packages.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

```yaml
- hosts: database
  become: yes
  vars_files:
    - vars/main.yml
  roles:
    - geerlingguy.postgresql
```

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

```yaml
postgresql_databases:
  - name: example_db
postgresql_users:
  - name: example_user
    password: supersecure
```

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

PR #266: Update README for new privs list option.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: PostgreSQL

[![CI](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/workflows/CI/badge.svg?event=push)](https://github.com/geerlingguy/ansible-role-postgresql/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

Installs and configures PostgreSQL server on RHEL/CentOS or Debian/Ubuntu servers.

## Requirements

No special requirements; note that this role requires root access, so either run it in a playbook with a global `become: yes`, or invoke the role in your playbook like:

```yaml
- hosts: database
  roles:
    - role: geerlingguy.postgresql
      become: yes
```
## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

```yaml
postgresql_enablerepo: ""
```
(RHEL/CentOS only) You can set a repo to use for the PostgreSQL installation by passing it in here.

```yaml
postgresql_restarted_state: "restarted"
```

Set the state of the service when configuration changes are made. Recommended values are `restarted` or `reloaded`.

```yaml
postgresql_python_library: python-psycopg2
```

Library used by Ansible to communicate with PostgreSQL. If you are using Python 3 (e.g. set via `ansible_python_interpreter`), you should change this to `python3-psycopg2`.

```yaml
postgresql_user: postgres
postgresql_group: postgres
```

The user and group under which PostgreSQL will run.

```yaml
postgresql_unix_socket_directories:
  - /var/run/postgresql
```

The directories (usually one, but can be multiple) where PostgreSQL's socket will be created.

```yaml
postgresql_service_state: started
postgresql_service_enabled: true
```

Control the state of the postgresql service and whether it should start at boot time.

```yaml
postgresql_global_config_options:
  - option: unix_socket_directories
    value: '{{ postgresql_unix_socket_directories | join(",") }}'
  - option: log_directory
    value: 'log'
```
Global configuration options that will be set in `postgresql.conf`.
For PostgreSQL versions older than 9.3 you need to at least override this variable and set the `option` to `unix_socket_directory`.
If you override the value of `option: log_directory` with another path, relative or absolute, then this role will create it for you.

```yaml
postgresql_hba_entries:
  - { type: local, database: all, user: postgres, auth_method: peer }
  - { type: local, database: all, user: all, auth_method: peer }
  - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '127.0.0.1/32', auth_method: md5 }
  - { type: host, database: all, user: all, address: '::1/128', auth_method: md5 }
```

Configure [host based authentication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/auth-pg-hba-conf.html) entries to be set in the `pg_hba.conf`. Options for entries include:

  - `type` (required)
  - `database` (required)
  - `user` (required)
  - `address` (one of this or the following two are required)
  - `ip_address`
  - `ip_mask`
  - `auth_method` (required)
  - `auth_options` (optional)

If overriding, make sure you copy all of the existing entries from `defaults/main.yml` if you need to preserve existing entries.

```yaml
postgresql_locales:
  - 'en_US.UTF-8'
```

(Debian/Ubuntu only) Used to generate the locales used by PostgreSQL databases.

```yaml
postgresql_databases:
  - name: exampledb # required; the rest are optional
    lc_collate: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
    lc_ctype: # defaults to 'en_US.UTF-8'
    encoding: # defaults to 'UTF-8'
    template: # defaults to 'template0'
    login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
    login_password: # defaults to not set
    login_user: # defaults to 'postgresql_user'
    login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
    port: # defaults to not set
    owner: # defaults to postgresql_user
    state: # defaults to 'present'
```

A list of databases to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

```yaml
postgresql_users:
  - name: jdoe #required; the rest are optional
    password: # defaults to not set
    encrypted: # defaults to not set
    role_attr_flags: # defaults to not set
    db: # defaults to not set
    login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
    login_password: # defaults to not set
    login_user: # defaults to '{{ postgresql_user }}'
    login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
    port: # defaults to not set
    state: # defaults to 'present'
```

A list of users to ensure exist on the server. Only the `name` is required; all other properties are optional.

```yaml
postgresql_privs:
  - db: exampledb # database (required)
    roles: jdoe  # role(s) the privs apply to (required)
    privs: # comma separated list of privileges - defaults to not set
    type: # type of database object to set privileges on - defaults to not set
    objs: # list of database objects to set privileges on - defaults to not set
    schema: # defaults to not set
    session_role: # defaults to not set
    fail_on_role: # defaults to true
    grant_option: # defaults to not set
    target_roles: # defaults to not set
    login_host: # defaults to 'localhost'
    login_password: # defaults to not set
    login_user: # defaults to '{{ postgresql_user }}'
    login_unix_socket: # defaults to 1st of postgresql_unix_socket_directories
    port: # defaults to not set
    state: # defaults to 'present'
```

A list of privileges to configure (new in role version 4.0.0).

```yaml
postgres_users_no_log: true
```

Whether to output user data (which may contain sensitive information, like passwords) when managing users.

```yaml
postgresql_version: [OS-specific]
postgresql_data_dir: [OS-specific]
postgresql_bin_path: [OS-specific]
postgresql_config_path: [OS-specific]
postgresql_daemon: [OS-specific]
postgresql_packages: [OS-specific]
```

OS-specific variables that are set by include files in this role's `vars` directory. These shouldn't be overridden unless you're using a version of PostgreSQL that wasn't installed using system packages.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

```yaml
- hosts: database
  become: yes
  vars_files:
    - vars/main.yml
  roles:
    - geerlingguy.postgresql
```

*Inside `vars/main.yml`*:

```yaml
postgresql_databases:
  - name: example_db
postgresql_users:
  - name: example_user
    password: supersecure
```

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2016 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
